all right so this bit about the reader
can be important and if you remember we
were discussing huge files a few videos
ago in this app we're reading the entire
XML into one string but the XML pool
passes quite happy to be given a reader
and to process the data as it comes down
from the internet now the pool parts
that doesn't hang on to text that it's
already processed it just throws it away
so if you did what a process gigabytes
of RSS on an Android device you could
connect the reader to the input stream
instead of providing the entire string
and of course if your users are paying
to download data then they may not be to
impress downloading that data on a
mobile data plan so there are other
things to consider in addition to the
memory on the device but the options are
available if you need them okay so
that's the pull parser process as its
input various events will happen now
this will be things like entering a tag
or reaching the end of the document now
we can get those events and respond to
them in our code so the first thing we
do is check the event and make sure that
we haven't reached the end of the
document the end of the XML that is
that's this code here on line 28 now if
we haven't and of course we shouldn't
have unless the XML was empty then the
while loop will keep looping until we do
get to the end now inside the loop is
where we get the values of the fields
were interested in as long as we check
the event type each time around we can
just keep checking for the tags we want
until there's no more XML left so let's
go ahead and write some more code now so
we've got the code there for checking to
see whether we've reached the end of the
document so within the value we're now
going to type in the code well tag name
is equal to x PP dot name dot to
lowercase and I'm just going to put a
comment here as a to do you should use
the safe call operator and more of that
later so the next line we're going to do
when
parentheses event type and open the code
block I'm going to start with the first
one which will be XML pull parser dot
start on the score tag so we need to add
our arrow there and a code block we will
do a log drop D for starters tag comma
and then double quotes pars call them
starting tag for and then + tag name
then if parentheses tag name is equal
equal to entry in lowercase you can
opening a code block that's going to be
in entry equals true then outside of the
code block we're just finishing off
those two tags I'm a corrupt are the
ending tag for the if and then the
ending tag for the XML pull parser not
start tag so after that the next one to
check will be XML pull parser dot txt
I'm going to use an arrow again and it's
going to be text value equals x PP dot
txt next we're going to do XML pull
parser dot n tag and then arrow again
and then we need some a code block for
that and let's add a log first and log
dot d again and the log is going to be
tagged in parentheses and the second
argument up the comma is pars ending tag
for plus tag name and next line if
parentheses in entry parentheses then
when parentheses tag name and I put a
code block I'm gonna start with entry
and double quotes and arrow and open a
code block then we can do applications
dot add current record and set in entry
to fall so in entry equals false
then current record with
set to a new object feed entry so we're
creating a new object just to be clear
what we're doing that all you needed
parentheses after feed entry that
because we are creating a new object
okay then we're closing off that to win
but or the first condition which is
entry the next one we're going to test
is name so name in double quotes arrow
when you set current record name to the
call text value next artist in double
quotes lower case arrow current record
artists equals text value next in double
quotes is release date arrow current
record dot release date is equal to text
value to more summary and double quotes
arrow current record dot summary is
equal to text value and the last one
will be image that's going to be current
record dot image URL is equal to text
value okay the other thing we need to do
outside of this loop here and here we're
going to put nothing else to do so I'm
going to put event type equals x PP dot
next I'm going to move on to the next
one
okay now inside the while loop that
we've just created we start off by
getting the name of the current tag and
that's this one here they decode on line
29 we do that each time around the loop
and it's worth noting that name can be
null if the possum is an insider tag now
we should use the safe call operator
there but I want to show you something
confusing about the logcat
so I'll lift it out there's a to-do
command so I don't forget to add it in
later now we can then take different
action depending on the top of event
that's happened inside the parser at
some point it's going to read the style
of a tag in the XML so when that happens
the event type will actually change to
start tag as you can see here so if that
happens we're only interested if it's an
entry tag because we're only doing
anything with the data in the individual
entries now you could if you wanted
modify this slightly so it displays the
title of the feed but we're not going to
do that at least I'm not going to do it
but it would make a good challenge so
you never know
alright so if we have got an entry tag
we set in entry to true you can see that
here occurred on line 35 no as long as
in entry is true we know we can use the
data for the tags we're interested in
you know at the end of the loop we
checked the next event by calling the
pull passes next method this one down
here on line 62 now that basically tells
the parser to continue working through
the XML until the next interesting thing
happens now that could be it finds an
end tag or it finds a value in the tag
it reaches the end of the document or so
on we don't know what the next event
will be but as long as it's not the end
of the document we'll go around our loop
again so every time there's a start tag
event and the tag is entry then we get
ready to store the data for a new
application now if the event type is
text as you can see here on line 39 then
that's the pull parser telling us the
date is available so in that case we're
storing the data in the string variable
text value now you may think that we
could store the value in the application
object at this point but that's actually
not how XML works let me switch back to
the excellent Chrome and just scroll the
raw XML up to the top we'll go back to
our XML what's actually at the top there
now you can see the event starting tag
here right at the top
so if this point the tag they would be
entry now that's the pool pass that
carries on passing it'll get to the
updated tag the next line and then
there'll be another start underscore tag
event so the tag name would now be
updated so next there'll be a text event
and we have that date available if you
wanted that's the date that's between
the updated starting tag and the updated
ending tag so then it'll hit the end tag
for updated the start tag for ID and
then we get the URL in the next text
event so as it works its way through the
entry the text it keeps finding changes
all the time you know the only way that
we can be sure that the text that's
available is for any particular tag is
to wait until there's an end tag event
and store the data at that point so
looking at the first name entry you know
event tag here which is this one down
here when the end tag is reached we know
that we can use the text value and
that'll be the value for the name tag so
going back to the code that's what the
code does it stores the text whenever
new text is available that's here on
line 39 but doesn't actually do anything
with it until an end tag event happens
and that's the code here that we're
testing on line 41 when we do get an int
a given we're checking to make sure the
pool pass was still inside an entry tag
so we're checking if an entry is set to
true of course that's an entry that we
set earlier if it is we can test the tag
name and assign the value variable to
the correct field of the current record
object and that's what this code is
doing here we're checking to see whether
name just release date summary or image
has been found in the XML and we're
setting the appropriate value from our
feed entry object and that's current
record which we were creating each time
we were we're finding a new ending tag
for entry
this current record now it's very
important to get the case right for
these tag names remember that we convert
the names to lowercase and we're doing
that here on line 29 xpp don't name got
to lowercase so we have to use the
lowercase tag names in our wind block
down here that's 51 through 55 it also
well basically any part of this wind
block with that reference is a tag that
has to be in lowercase so release date
may cause problems and you can see I've
made a typo here because I put release
date with a capital D but we have to be
consistent here and use lowercase again
because we've specified and converted
our tags to lowercase so I've changed
that correctly back to what it was
release date or what it should be rather
which is release date all lowercase
alright so back to our conditions when
we get an end tag event the first one
checks if the tag name is entry that's
this code here on line 45 in which case
we've reached the end of all our data
for our current record so that means
that we can add current record to the
list of applications then set in entry
to false because this is the end tag for
entry and we finished by creating a new
feed entry object ready for the next
entry details if indeed there is another
entry otherwise we're checking the tag
name the codes 50 lines 51 through 55 to
see if it matches any of the fields
we're interested in if it does we set
the corresponding field of current
record to the valley that's stored in
text value and that's the main link the
only other thing I've done is added a
couple of logging lines so that we can
see what's happening when the program
runs alright so that's the main loop but
there's one more thing I want to do here
temporarily and that's to loop through
the application list once all that the
XML has been processed and just print
out the values of the fields so that we
can be sure that it's worked okay so
let's go ahead and add that code and
that's going to be down here before the
return so I'm going to do that well
actually want to do it here after the
event type xbp dot next after that
closing code block down here we're going
to make
code for parenthesis app app in
applications parentheses code block
we're going to log D RIPTA sees and I'm
just going to add some stars here
semester fixes in the lagdi tag comma
app dot two string and I'll fix this up
as well
tag comma like so so note that I've put
that code outside of the while loop so
sloggers has no exceptions throwing we
should see the details for all the
applications in the logcat and because
we overrode the two string method for
the feed entry class will get more
useful information than knowing would
have got with the default function
including the values of some of the
fields okay so we're almost ready to run
the app and see if the XML is parsed
correctly all we would have to do is
call this parse method
so back in main activity I'm going to
open that up and don't the place to do
the parsing is in is in the on post
execute method and then of course is for
our to a delayed data class I'm post
execute now we don't need to log the XML
anymore because that bits working
forward then we're also logging the XML
at the start of our parse function so
there's no need to look at twice so I'm
actually going to comment the logging
line out in the on post execute function
then we're going to add the code to
create our parser I'm going to type now
parse applications equals pars up
locations parentheses we're creating the
object then we're going to leave our zap
locations dot pars parentheses result
sorry results the other thing I want to
do is change the argument here for
unfazed a result onpostexecute which is
a result string question mark let's
remove the question mark
and that fixes up that error as well so
in the next video we've got to run the
application and see if it works so see
you in the next video